NOTE: In addition to being sexless, this species is also genderless. Though some of them may appear more femme or more masc in the clothes they wear (player halflings can wear anything - anybody can bc clothes are practical and not really gendered here), generally the humans and other sentient races in the game, or anyone living within [[the University]] which don't want them dead, use they/them pronouns. The xenophobic factions of the game refer to them using it/its, or a manner of other derogatory terms. The Halflings themselves also use they/them if they are referring to one another. Either way though, they are NEVER referred to using binary pronouns, even by those that resent them. Its racism, not transphobia. 

Humanoid insect creatures that generally anatomically resemble something of a praying mantis, but with more of a human type of vibe to them - and slightly taller than your average human. They come in many different colors and patterns - many of which resembling the bright features of the [[Rainforest]] which they call home. Some are just plain green though too.

They have hands where a mantis's pincers would be - however, they also have a sharp pincer on each arm just above the wrist which gives them an extreme advantage in close range melee combat. Many formerly enslaved [[Halflings]] are missing them however, as a result of their captors being afraid of retaliation. To compensate for this, many of them make makeshift prosthetic blades from the parts of fallen [[Mechaknights]], and somewhat brutally jam them into their arms as an act of rebellion against their captors. This species possesses extreme agility and wit - most often relying on speed and stealth rather than brute force strength. This makes them very well suited for dungeon crawling and other adventurous pursuits, provided you have the crew to back them up.

These people reside primarily within the cities in or close to the [[Rainforest]] that are controlled by [[The University]]. The reason for this is mostly because their very existence is outlawed within [[The Kingdom of Man]], and anyone caught with or even simply near them will be immediately enslaved in one of many "re-education" camps, while the Halfling themself will be simply permanently enslaved for the rest of their existence. Very, very few people make it out of slavery within the Kingdom.  

Due to their appearance, Halflings are generally able to navigate and survive the [[Rainforest]] much easier than [[Human]]s can. This makes them excellent [[Mage]]s and explorers, with many high ranks within the University being filled by them. The [[Archmage]] themself is a Halfling, and many of them in eras prior have been as well (though not all). 

Religious scholars in [[The University]] believe that the Halflings lived on Nova long before the arrival of Humans, and indeed many of the oldest surviving texts that can be found throughout the game that were not written by humans indicate that humans did not in fact originate on the continent, cited in [[Dawn of the Age of Fire]] as having hailed from a [[land beyond the sea]]. Naturally, many Halflings themselves also take this a step further and believe that part of the "original peace" that came before the [[Age of Fire]] was that they were the dominant species, not [[Human]]s. By and large, most people living under [[The University]]'s protection don't mind this too much, even the humans, since the Halflings are a generally peace loving and calm people. They provide much more, and while there is still an amount of corruption caused by the influence of things like the [[Trade Guild]], there is nothing even close to the level of persecution and torment one might receive at the hands of nobles within the desert cities. 