"Rot" is the metaphysical term used to describe the process that members of the [[KINGDOM OF MAN RELIGION]] believe will inevitably consume the entirety of the [[Map]]. 

Depending on who you believe, rot is either a good or very bad thing. Members of the [[KINGDOM OF MAN RELIGION]] believe, sort of mistakenly, that if [[Rot]] is allowed to take over again, it will be like the apocalypse - everyone is going to be swallowed up by  [[Moss Sickness]] and cities will turn to anarchy. This is detailed a bit in the book, [[The dimming of Fire]]. To an extent, they are right. The slave-driven economy they hold very dearly will crumble, and many ignorant people who do not understand how to wear respirators or properly clear their homes of moss will probably die.

[[THE UNIVERSITY RELIGION]], though, does not view this as necessarily a bad thing, nor do they call it Rot. To them, its just the natural world reclaiming its land and taking back rightfully belongs to it. Anybody who refuses to live with the natural world, or who burns it down for their own gain as it is said they did and they often do now, or who denies someone their right to exist freely, does not deserve to be in the peaceful world that comes after. [[THE UNIVERSITY RELIGION]] sees it mostly as a cleansing of parasites, because it honestly is not super difficult to survive in the [[Rainforest]] once you know what you're doing. Many towns would probably adapt very well, given that Rot is not anywhere near an instant process. 

Rot is also the term [[Halflings]] use to describe what happens to them when [[the Well]] does not have enough [[lifeblood]], or is empty. 