Architecturally, they are like massive domed cisterns. They contain very little light, only maybe a few beams coming in through cracks in the ceiling. The walls are covered top to bottom in religious imagery depicting images of the two goddesses, the rainforest, and less easy to decipher things such as references to what some of the ancient temples might have been (high tech factories), how the people from that time obtained [[lifeblood]] (its like oil mining - there are old oil-rig type ruins everywhere), etc. The floor is about ankle deep with water, but a little bridge-like stone platform leads all the way to the center, where a massive beautiful ciruclar mosaic sits. At the center of this mosaic piece is the old well, which the player, if they're brave enough, can hop down into and get some treasure out of the bottom of. 

The bottom of each of the 6 [[wells]] will be unique, but they will all resemble a long, huge hallway strongly resembling the type of hallway you might see in a [[The University]] temple, that has what appears to be deactivated (dead?) giant Mechaknights lined against the wall, almost like guards or those big pharaoh statues that used to line great halls. At the end of the hallway is a sealed tomb, which the player can open and, maybe after fighting a miniboss im not sure, can find a unique item. I'm thinking maybe some more zelda-type items that might make exploration more unique/fun, like a grappling hook or a special unbreakable respirator or a unique sword, shit like that. 