The confederation of Free Cities is a loosely defined group of City States that have almost the exact same view as  [[The Kingdom of Man]] with the strong exception that they don't believe in human enslavement as punishment. Unfortunately, they do not extend all of the rights prescribed by this "freedom to be," as the [[Constitution of Free Cities]] (A WORKING TITLE) refers to it, to the [[Halflings]] which live within their borders. Although they are allowed to exist, which is definitely a step above the immediate death sentence or enslavement the [[Imperator's Decree]] outlines must happen to them.

Here, Halflings are basically a slave class kept in perpetual poverty through economic discrimination. They are denied work in specific fields that would allow them to gain upward social mobility, and thus they find themselves mostly working the menial, tedious, and often back-breaking labor jobs that are required to fuel the massive [[Weapon Refinery]]s that supply the bulk of the weapons for not only the Confederation's military, but the [[The Kingdom of Man]]'s as well. In addition to this, [[Halflings]] are constitutionally discriminated against (the [[Constitution of Free Cities]] only guarentees the rights of HUMANS, not Halflings), with it being perfectly legal for captured Halflings (oftentimes arrested on bullshit or petty charges that [[Human]]s likely wouldn't be brought in for) can be sold at any time by the police forces within these cities, known as [[Militiamen]]. As a result, the vast majority of [[Halflings]] that live in this region are slaves, and generally freed Halflings do not travel here as it is also perfectly legal for [[Slavers]] from [[The Kingdom of Man]] to capture anyone they see fit outside of the cities. 

Generic [[crossbow]]s, swords of all kinds, [[spear]]s, etc. Can be bought in the [[Weapon Shop]]s of these cities for RELATIVELY good money, making it not a bad place to start for a human character. The catch, however, is that most of the weapons that get sold in these shops to the public, through means of the [[Smithing Guild]], are of poor or generic [[Weapon Quality]], and therefore aren't going to be great for much other than training and other early game activities. The same can be said about [[Armor Shop]]s. 

--Influence--
Although on many of the political [[Map]]s you can find throughout the game the Free Cities appears as taking up roughly a third of the non-[[Rainforest]] land, the state-like nature of each individual city does not 

--Daily Life--

For the average [[Human]], life in the Free Cities is not so bad. Trade Guild [[Shops]] provide them with ample food at a (relatively) affordable price, the great stone walls that surround their cities keep most of the bugs and ne'erdowells out, and as long as they don't speak too out of line about the local nobility or commit any other violations of the [[Constitution of Free Cities]], then generally [[Knights]] from the [[Order of the Sun]] will not bother you. 

--GEOGRAPHY--
The Free Cities inhabits the north-western corner of the map, from the high steppes of the [[Tundra]] region to well into the [[Desert]] wastes.

--ARCHITECTURE--
These people live in cities constructed in tight circles, much like ancient nuraghes except much larger. Massive, rounded stone towers are often at the center of these cities, with their height providing an excellent advantage on an otherwise flat landscape. These stone towers are surrounded by small towns to cities, and the size of a tower is generally an indicator of how big a town might be. The bigger the town, the further the watch needs to be. 

At the edge of these towns are walls and gates made from varying things, from scrap metal and debris in the poorer cities to sandstone or marble in the capital region. These walls provide one of the only layers of defense for these cities, whose defense strategy generally relies on the sight of their watchmen, who sit in makeshift towers and keep posts all along these walls. 

--History--

Hundreds of years prior to the present [[Time]] of the game, the Confederation of Free Cities engaged in a long and bloody rebellion against the [[The Kingdom of Man]], as they believed that all [[Human]]s deserved an equal opportunity at the same life, free from the iron fist of the [[Imperator]]. However, by the end of this war, what actually ended up happening was that the Imperator ceeded the cities that are now called the Free Cities to the first person who would become their [[Supreme Commander]], the leader of the rebellion and founder of the Confederation [[Halfdan The Great]], in exchange for ending the bloodshed AND ALSO making a number of political concessions - most notably allowing [[Slavers]] to operate in the region. The [[Trade Guild]] also has complete economic control over this region, and [[Constitution of Free Cities]] explicitly states that shop owners from outside the guild are NOT allowed to operate.

Having a slave class of [[Halflings]] underneath the normally very impoverished peasant class is actually generally considered to be a positive thing by most people in the Confederation - a sort of "at least we don't have it as bad as THOSE GUYS" cultural mentality developed, and now in the present day citizens really don't tend to question the influence of the [[Trade Guild]], and by extension [[The Kingdom of Man]], on life within the Free Cities.  Propaganda, spread mostly by the Trade Guild and other Kingdom sources, has also made fear-mongering about Halflings very easy, and as such they don't tend to be accepted in many places, despite being technically considered equal. 