note: name changeeee maybe thieves guild?! maybe free kingdom >!

The biggest human-influenced faction outside of [[The Kingdom of Man]], the University is one of the only multi-species factions in the game, allowing people from all species, ethnicities, and gender identities to (relatively) peacefully coexist. Those who are not merely taking refuge within their walls (i.e. Mages, Researchers, Citizens, etc. people who would be considered full members) believe that the [[Life-Tree]], which sits at the center of their main capital city (presently unnamed), is the corpse of Nova (the mother of the land and giver of life to its inhabitants, murdered by her children to usher in the age of Man and Fire) that will one day rise out of the ground and destroy the continent and everyone on it as punishment for the age of Fire. The University believes it's sole duty to be protecting the Life-Tree and [[the Well]] (source of all [[lifeblood]] and waterer of the Life-Tree) from [[The Kingdom of Man]], which is currently attempting to burn it down and destroy the University for "heresy". This is because the University believes that it is through the [[Life-Tree]] that the goddesses [[Solip]] and [[Pilos]] will be born again, and restore peace and balance throughout the land.

Most of the University's resources, beyond helping their citizens and defending against the Empire, are devoted to understanding the world around them through heavy research and exploration in order to posess some kind of military and technological advancement over the Empire, and also just so that they might learn something about the days before the Age of Fire. Driven by many factors, people from all over the continent come to University cities to be a part of this project, and the University welcomes them with open arms. Anybody who wishes to contribute to the overall protection of the Life-Tree and the advancement of knowledge is encouraged to seek them out.

The University also happens to be a frequent harbor to thieves and other criminals of [[The Kingdom of Man]]. Coincidentally, the ancient tech they steal and loot from heavily guarded ancient [[ruins]] (some kind of creatures infest them, not sure what yet) tends to be bought up by Researchers and Rangers who are eager for things to study... Unfortunately, though the University's own constitution, the [[Pactus Magna]], explicitly outlaws slavery of all kinds, and does let anyone within its borders sign up to join [[military convoy]]s and [[expedition]]s by means of its many [[Recruitment Camp]]s, they are extremely limited in their resources to protect people from things like [[Head Hunters]] outside of their main cities, who of course sometimes find themselves in that territory hunting.. They are not that much of a threat here though because they are often very small in number and with no backup so far past the Kingdom's influence. When dealing with them in the wild, if there are NPCs from the University around, they will aid you in making sure you don't get caught. This is not a territory friendly to slave hunters by any means, they just remain a pervasive threat throughout the entire land.

--GEOGRAPHY--
Location-wise, the University occupies a large portion of the south-easternmost regions of the continent, stretching through about half of the [[Rainforest]], with a few minor towns and [[outposts]] in the southeastern edges of the [[Desert]]. The old political map in these notes is very dated. Their capital city, the location of the [[Life-Tree]] and [[the Well]], are a mystery, thought to be hidden somewhere deep within the [[Rainforest]], with the [[Archmage]] sending their orders down through their [[High Mages]] to be distributed throughout the cities.  In game, the capital city sits on the edge of the southeastern gulf of the map, right along the water. It is very difficult to get to. 

Despite having such a wide political boundary, the University does not have a very strong grip over their territories outside of the capital. Corruption runs rampant, although they still are bound by most of the values that the [[Pactus Magna]] outlines, such as anti-slavery and the promotion of an egalitarian lifestyle. Corruption in this sense mostly means economic, although of course the moral problems that capitalism creates are still an issue here, since during the [[Time]] of the game, the [[Trade Guild]] is just beginning to seep its way into the local [[Bazaar]]s of many cities and towns.   

--ARCHITECTURE--
Most of the major cities are built upon millennia old, heavily decayed stone architecture bearing a mild resemblance to Maya/central-American city infrastructure. Their temples, research halls, [[Bazaar]]s, and even many governmental buildings are built within what seem to be ancient factories and science laboratories, constructed in some kind of extremely odd and brutalist fashion. [[Halflings]], as well as every other follower of the [[two goddesses]], believe these buildings to have held great importance during the time before the [[Age of Fire]], and so they make every effort to maintain the ones they have control over as best they can despite the millennia of rot and decay that has taken place, mostly as a result of their placement being directly in the heart of the [[Rainforest]]. They do a generally good job of it, although most people from the outside wouldn't be able to tell. If they hadn't done ANYTHING, though, [[Rot]] would have consumed it a long time ago. 

--SOCIAL STRUCTURE--
The [[Archmage]] is the person in charge of all the territories - they have a council of [[High Mages]] which advise them, and also guard the [[Life-Tree]]. This makes up the government of the land. Since the capital city, where the [[Archmage]] lives, is so remote, one of these [[High Mages]] resides in each of the 6 main cities that the University controls, with three more guarding [[the Well]]. Orders from the Archmage are given largely through them, who act basically as local nobles but with a bit less of the pompous, entitled, bratty attitude that many of [[The Kingdom of Man]]'s nobles possess. They are sort of closer to monks that serve a political role. In their attempt to remain in a more religious role and less political, a lot of governmental control is given to the people considered citizens. Public forums are held often in the temples which house the monks. These public forums have sometimes, on the very rare occurance of a great strife between the community and their leader, ended in the replacement of one of the [[High Mages]] themselves. Usually, it is someone deemed to be a more sufficient person the people think can resolve the strife. The [[Archmage]], however, remains the same. And this is because they are a person that is not chosen by people, but believed to be born of the descendents of the [[two goddesses]]. 

The learning of this role of [[High Mages]] then naturally begs the question, "who are the citizens?" And to that, the answer is: almost every [[Human]], [[Halflings]], and [[Mechaknights]] that sticks around long enough to be considered a "member of the land," as the locals will often put it. Some people own property, some don't and merely stay around in camps, but they are usually taken in and housed either by the local temple itself, or sometimes locals should they find themselves in good standing. By and large, these cities are peaceful places with people who are merely interested in living their own lives, and ensuring the safety of their community. 

Should the time come, as it often does due to the constant barrage of attacks coming from [[The Kingdom of Man]], these people are ready at any time to defend themselves. Everyone who is old enough that sticks around long enough to be a "member of the land" is given combat training and some form of weapon to defend themselves. This is so that everyone, at basically any time, can become a soldier should the need arise. The armies of the University are immense, and it is precisely this along with their undying passion for freedom that keeps them alive against the constant onslaught from [[The Kingdom of Man]]. 


--RELATIONS-- 

[[Trade Guild]]: The University and the Trade Guild, which is essentially the economic wing of [[The Kingdom of Man]], have historically been as much at odds as the University and The Kingdom. But recently, as of the [[Time]] of the game, the Trade Guild has been allowed to open up a select few [[Shops]] in the [[Bazaar]]s of  certain outposts, mostly in order to compensate for the University's increasing lack of ability to supply its cities and research [[outposts]] further away from the capital. While the Trade Guild is very happy to do this, as are the leaders of the cities which those shops exist in, this has caused a lot of political unrest within the University because of the Trade Guild's heavy reliance on Slavery and forced labor, especially of [[Halflings]]. If you have a Halfling in your squad and travel to one of the many types of [[Shops]] they offer in the [[Bazaar]]s they have been allowed to set up, they often make a big fuss about it (rightfully so).